tags = "jython,test"

summary = """
Migrate Jython's bugtests 51-75 into its standard regression test.
"""

description = """
Jython currently runs many of the tests from CPython's std lib in addition to
some of its own tests written in the same style.  It also has a stepchild of a
test directory, bugtests.  These are over 400 individual test modules that each
contain a single test case.  Many of the tests in them are valuable and should
be run regularly as part of Jython development, but there are also tests for
features that have changed or gone away which have been disabled for years.
This task is to go through tests 51-75 and convert the valuable tests into
unittest.TestCases like our main body of tests, and to discard the ones whose
time has passed.

Tests of using and extending Java should be added to
Lib/test/test_java_integration.py.  Any Java code used by the test should be
moved to tests/java.

For tests of Python features, first check if the test is valid for Python 2.5.
If it's no longer supported in Python, just delete it and make a note of why
you deleted it in your submission.  If it is valid, check if there's an
equivalent test in Lib/test or CPythonLib/test.  If so, delete it and note why
in your submission.

If a test doesn't meet any of those criteria, then it should be migrated into a
test file for the module it's testing in Lib/test.  The general naming
convention for tests like this should be test_<module name>_jy.py.  Since
there's usually already a test in CPythonLib for a given module, _jy is
appended to allow them to all run side by side.  If a _jy test already exists
for the module, just migrate this test into it.  If not, create a new _jy test
for it in the style of test_str_jy or test_dict_jy.
                                             
Tests that raise support.TestWarning are for bugs that have been identified but
not yet fixed.  You should ask the mentor for this task or one of the devs on
#jython on irc.freenode.net if the bug should be fixed and the test migrated,
or if the test should just be discarded.

See http://wiki.python.org/jython/JythonDeveloperGuide to get started building
Jython and then http://wiki.python.org/jython/TestingJython for how to run the
tests in Lib/test and bugtests.

Completion:

Attach the result of an 'svn diff' to this task and contact the ghop-python
mailing list.
"""

owner = "charlie.groves"
