#summary Information about the GHOP mentors, Python community and online resources.
#labels students,Featured

= Getting Help =

Running into problems?  Confused about the task details?  Need to talk to someone?

There are a bunch of resources out there for you to use!

== Contest specific helplins ==

First, consider e-mailing the [http://groups.google.com/group/ghop-python ghop-python project mailing list] with your questions.  A group of friendly Pythonistas (see list of mentors, below) is standing by!

You can also use [http://www.irchelp.org/irchelp/new2irc.html Internet Relay Chat, or IRC]; use an IRC client to connect to chat.freenode.net, channel #python-ghop, password 'guido'.  We will try to hang out there.

Finally, please feel free to e-mail the task owner or 'CC' person directly.

== General Python community ==

The Python community is very friendly and can be a great source of information.
Check out the [http://www.python.org/community/ list of community resources]!

In particular, you should consider posting questions to the [http://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-list general python mailing list].  If you post to this list, please do identify yourself as "participant in the Google Highly Open Participation contest" and be sure to identify the task you're working on -- that way people can give you more detailed help.

== Highly Open Participation Contest Mentors ==

Everyone listed here should be on the [http://groups.google.com/group/ghop-python ghop-python project mailing list]:

|| Name           || email || #python-ghop || Time Zone || Web site ||
|| Georg Brandl   || georg@python.org || birkenfeld || UTC+1 || ||
|| Titus Brown    || titus@idyll.org || || || [http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/ blog] ||
|| Grig Gheorghiu || || || || ||
|| Doug Hellmann  || doug.hellmann@gmail.com || dhellmann || UTC-5 (US/Eastern) || [http://blog.doughellmann.com/ blog] ||
|| Andre Roberge  || andre.roberge@gmail.com || || UTC-4 || [http://aroberge.blogspot.com/ blog] ||