#summary Breakdown of the various types of tasks
#labels students

Whether or not you're new to programming or even to programming in
Python, there are a variety of tasks for you to tackle.

One good place to start is with the [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:demo demo and advocacy tasks], where you can run through an existing tutorial and then give a presentation on it.  You could also try [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:screencast making a screencast], where you record a video from your screen.

You can also work on [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:core the Python core distribution] or on a variety of [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:thirdparty applications and libraries written by others].

Testing code is a great way to get to know the code.  We have lots of
[http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:test testing tasks]; ask for guidance if you need a place to start.  Some of the [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:coverage coverage tasks] might be especially good.

The Python standard library ("stdlib" for short) is full of great functionality, and we have a bunch of [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:stdlib stdlib tasks] like writing new examples and updating documentation.

Speaking of documentation and examples, there are plenty of places that need work -- see the [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:docs documentation tasks] or the [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:examples examples tasks].

Do you know a language other than English?  Take a look at [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:translation the translation tasks].

We have a few [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:unix UNIX] and [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:windows Windows] tasks.

Know how to program in C or C++?  We have a [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:C few tasks especially for you]!

Interested in speed and performance issues?  Check out the [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:performance performance tasks].

The next big version of Python is "Python 3000", a.k.a. "Python 3K" or "Python 3.0".  We have a [http://code.google.com/p/google-highly-open-participation-psf/issues/list?q=label:py3k few tasks] related to making Python 3K a success!