tags = "coding,trac,thirdparty"

summary = """
Create a program to load Proctor test results into trac tickets
"""

description = """
Create a command line program to read Proctor
(http://www.doughellmann.com/projects/Proctor/) test results and
create trac (http://trac.edgewall.org) tickets from them.

Proctor uses the unittest framework to run tests, and produces a
parseable output report.  It also includes a library for parsing those
results so they can be processed.  Your task is to use that library to
create a program to load the test results into trac to open tickets
for failing tests.

All of the tests from the same class which FAIL for any reason or have
the same ERROR (determined by the name of the exception causing the
error) should be included in the same ticket.  The summary of the
ticket should include the test name, as reported by Proctor.  The body
of the ticket should include all of the information available from the
parsed test report (for each test, the name, exit status, and
traceback, if any).

Your program must search for existing tickets for the same failures
and avoid submitting duplicate tickets if there is already an open
ticket for those failures.  One simple way to accomplish that is to
use a well-defined formula for setting the summary so you can search
for the value.

For extra credit, include a command line option to your program to set
the component and keywords of the new tickets created.

Completion:

You may start your own project for this program, or contribute it to
Proctor (you will be credited when a new release of Proctor comes out
if you contribute there).  If you start your own project, link to the
home page for the project via a comment on this ticket.  In either
case, attach a copy of the source for your program to this ticket.  If
you need to make changes or enhancements to Proctor, attach a diff
file suitable for patching the source.
"""

owner = "doug.hellmann"
