tags = "thirdparty,screencast"

summary = """
Record a screencast on the Sage Notebook
"""

description = """
Access a Sage Notebook and record a 10-20 minute screencast demonstrating input
evaluation, docstring and source lookup, tab-completion, LaTeX and HTML output,
and 2D & 3D plotting.

There are three public Sage Notebooks at http://sagenb.com, http://sagenb.org,
and https://sage.math.washington.edu:8102. You can also run notebooks yourself
with Sage (http://sagemath.org/).

Start your screencast by entering some interesting code and evaluating it by
hitting SHIFT-ENTER then writing some more code and evaluating that and
continuing for several cells. Next, create a new worksheet and write
interesting code in a bunch of cells then evaluate the whole worksheet by
selecting "Evaluate All" under "Action" at the top of the page.

Third, show the docstrings of several modules, functions, classes, and methods
by typing "?" after their identifiers and hitting TAB. Then, show their source
code by typing "??" after their identifiers and hitting TAB. Next give examples
of tab-completion by hitting TAB after a few partial identifiers and selecting
identifiers using arrow and ENTER keys.

Six, give good examples of 2D plotting for algebra/geometry and art. Also, give
examples of 3D plotting with the Sage interface to Tachyon, see
http://sagemath.org/doc/html/ref/module-sage.plot.tachyon.html. Plus, give a
walk through of 3D plotting with Sage's Java3D (still under initial
development), see docstrings at

http://www.sagemath.org/hg/sage-main/file/7110a20969c8/sage/plot/plot3d/plot3d.py.

Finally, show off two and three dimensional plotting related to the Rubiks
Cube, see

http://sagemath.org/doc/html/ref/module-sage.matrix.dense-matrix-pyx.html.

Completion:

Attach either a file containing the screencast, or the URL of the screencast,
to this task. The screencast must be in an acceptable format, see
HowToMakeScreencasts.  Be sure to post it with an acceptable license; see
StudentPage for more information.

Relevant wiki pages:

  - HowToMakeScreencasts.

Task duration: please complete this task within 5 days (120 hours) of claiming
it.
"""

owner = "timothy.clemans"
